---
title: Ocsigen's 2024 recap
layout: default
author: The Ocsigen team
authorurl: https://ocsigen.org
---
2024 was a busy year for the Ocsigen ecosystem, in case you missed any of it, here are the important highlights:

wasm\_of\_ocaml has been merged in its parent project js\_of\_ocaml, making your Ocsigen projects that much closer to being served as WASM instead of JavaScript. In the meantime you can build your own WASM by using wasm\_of\_ocaml to get a taste of the future.

Major work has been undertaken on Ocsigen:

- Ocsigen Server 6
- Eliom 11
- Ocsigen Start 7

Ocsigen server no longer needs a configuration file to start your project, you can instead start Ocsigen server in your project and handle the configuration yourself.
If you're eager to `Ocsigen_server.start ...` you can learn more in the following announcements:

https://discuss.ocaml.org/t/ann-ocsigen-server-6-0-0/15265
https://discuss.ocaml.org/t/ann-eliom-11-and-ocsigen-start-7/15487

Ready for 2025? We certainly are!
Our efforts to make the Ocsigen ecosystem more modular are ongoing: next on the list is ocsigen-i18n, making easier to pick and choose what bits of Ocsigen you want to include in your project, and allowing to use it for any OCaml application.
The biggest evolution of the Ocsigen project is underway & soon to be announced, and that's not even including wasm\_of\_ocaml.
Also keep an eye out for our public meeting announcements in which we discuss our current tasks, ask for public feedback, and answer whatever ocsigen related questions you might have.
