<<head-css|.monospace{font-family: monospace;}>>
<<div class="project-page" |
<<div class="rightcol" |

<<header |=Contributing to Ocsigen>>

==For individual contributers
To contribute to an Ocsigen project, first see the guidelines it provides. It
will give you the directives on how to make your contribution. Once ready,
create a //Pull Request// on the repository and wait for feedback!

**Every contribution has to be documented!** The documentation is stored on
a branch ##wikidoc##. For your contribution to be accepted, you also need to
make a PR on that branch for your documentation. On your forked branch, feel
free to push and the CI will tell you if your documentation has errors. It
will only be deployed to [[https://ocsigen.org]] when merged on ##wikidoc##.

The documentation format is the wikicréole. Please find the reference
[[wiki("html_of_wiki"):|here]].
You can generate the documentation of your API  directly in Ocsigen's wikicréole
using {{{ocamldoc}}}. Do not hesitate to ask for help if you experience any trouble.

Remember, you have to issue **2** pull requests---one for your code on ##master##
and one for its documentation on ##wikidoc##---for your contribution to be
accepted!

==Create a release (for package maintainers)
# Make sure the documentation on ##wikidoc## is **up to date** with the code on ##master##.
# On ##wikidoc##, {{{cp -r dev X.Y.Z}}}, where {{{X.Y.Z}}} is the new version's number. Commit changes, do a PR, wait for the documentation to be regenerated, and check the documentation on the website.
# Update file CHANGES
# On ##master##, update opam configuration file.
# {{{git tag <version>}}} puis {{{git push --tags}}}
# Create a release on GitHub.
# {{{opam publish}}} and wait for the package to be accepted.
<<|# Manually update symbolic link {{{latest}}} on branch {{{gh-pages}}} //(How to automatize this?)//>>

Also do not forget to push on ##wikidoc## as it will update the website
automatically for the new version.

==Local documentation generation
html_of_wiki can (to some extent) locally generate your documentation. Please
find its manual [[wiki("html_of_wiki"):|here]].
Each project, on the ##wikidoc## branch, contains a file ##how.json##. Please
ensure that its configuration is correct for your changes. The following
steps require you to be at //the root of the project//.

* Install html_of_wiki on your computer. Please follow the instructions provided on the [[https://github.com/ocsigen/html_of_wiki|project's homepage]].
* Copy the {{{template}}} directory from the repository [[https://github.com/ocsigen/ocsigen.github.io|ocsigen.github.io]] and rename it {{{how_template}}}. You can use the following command:
{{{
tmp=$(mktemp -d) && \
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/ocsigen/ocsigen.github.io.git $tmp && \
mv $tmp/{template,how_template} && \
mv $tmp/how_template .
}}}
* Use the following command to generate the documentation of the project, where {{{DOC}}} is the directory containing the documentation:
{{{
quickdop -f DOCS _doc -t json -c how.json -viul
}}}

If you want to avoid generating the whole documentation---just some parts of
it---read the documentation of the tools **{{{dop}}}** and **{{{ohow}}}** in
[[wiki("html_of_wiki"):|the manual of html_of_wiki]].

==Main site

Changes in the main site must be done in repository {{{ocsigen.github.io}}},
branch {{{master}}}, directory {{{manual}}}. Site generation must be done
manually: {{{make deploy}}}.
>>
>>
