<<head-css|.monospace{font-family: monospace;}>>
<<div class="project-page" |
<<div class="rightcol" |

<<header |=Contributing to Ocsigen>>

==For individual contributers
To contribute to an Ocsigen project, first see the guidelines it provides. It
will give you the directives on how to make your contribution. Once ready,
create a //Pull Request// on the repository and wait for feedback!

**Every contribution has to be documented!** The documentation is stored on
a branch ##wikidoc##. For your contribution to be accepted, you also need to
make a PR on that branch for your documentation. On your forked branch, feel
free to push and the CI will tell you if your documentation has errors. It 
will only be deployed to [[https://ocsigen.org]] when merged on ##wikidoc##.

The documentation format is the wikicréole. Please find the reference
[[https://ocsigen.org/html_of_wiki/2.0/manual/intro|here]]. You can generate
the documentation of your API  directly in Ocsigen's wikicréole using {{{ocamldoc}}}.
Do not hesitate to ask for help if you experience any trouble.

Remember, you have to issue **2** pull requests---one for your code on ##master##
and one for its documentation on ##wikidoc##---for your contribution to be
accepted!

==Create a release (for package maintainers)
# Make sure the documentation on ##wikidoc## is **up to date** with the code on ##master##.
# On ##wikidoc##, {{{cp -r dev X.Y.Z}}}, where {{{X.Y.Z}}} is the new version's number.
# On ##master##, update opam configuration file.
# {{{git tag}}}
# Create a release on GitHub.
# {{{opam publish}}} and wait for the package to be accepted.

Also do not forget to push on ##wikidoc## as it will update the website
automatically for the new version.
>>
>>
